Hello, welcome, today we are going to
talk about a small but very powerful component, the
transistor. It has
really changed modern technology. We have
a good source that will explain to us
how it was invented, how it works
and why it is so important.
Our aim is to understand why this small
thing is considered one of the great inventions of the 20th century. So let's
go deeper. Let's start with the
very basic morning. What does this transistor
mean? The source says that it is a
semiconductor device. It
usually has three connections, three terminals, and
its function is to amplify or turn on and off an electrical signal.
Like a switch,
yes, it can be called a small gate for electricity,
but it is the main
active part that is very important. In almost all electronics,
a small input signal
can control a much larger output signal.
This ability to amplify and
switch is the basis of it,
and how interesting is the story of its invention.
Bell Labs 1947
Barden Bratton and Shockley sources say
that those people were actually trying to make a field effect
transistor i.e. FET
but by mistake or let's
say by accident they discovered the point contact
transistor
yes yes it can be said to be accidental
and they also got the Nobel Prize for it. At
that time in physics they had
some difficulties in making FET.
Due to material science the real success came
when they understood exactly how semiconductors behave and
that is why the first working
transistor was made and the interesting thing is
that a scientist named Leon Feld had
patented the idea of ​​FET before Dycko but
could not make it and almost at the same time in
Europe also Mataria and Welker had
worked independently in this direction i.e. the
idea was there but the work of making it a reality was done in
Bell Labs and then in the
late 50s MOSFET came also Bell
Sources from the labs say that this is the
most widely used transistor today.
What is so special about it? The
main thing about it is scalability. This means that
it can be made in a very small size and at the
same time it
also consumes less electricity. It
can fit a much larger number of bipolar junction transistors in a small space than the previous BJTs.
This is called high density. This is why
integrated circuits,
i.e. IC chips,
yes, chips, became possible. Today, there are millions, even billions of transistors on a small chip.
Today's computers and smartphones are all
thanks to this MOSFET. It is the foundation of the digital revolution. There is
a figure in the source. It is known that
by 2018, about 13 sextillion MOSFETs had been made
.
13 sextillion, father, 13 times 210, this is an
unimaginable number.  So
how does this widely used tool work
?  In simple terms, the source has two main functions:
switching and amplifying.
As a switch, it is the basis of digital logic.
Either when it is on, it allows the current to pass,
like a closed switch, or when it is off, it
stops the current, like an open switch. This is the one
and zero of a computer. And
as an amplifier, as we have discussed before, a small,
weak input signal controls a large output signal.
This is very important in radios and audio equipment. The
source also says that the
KBJs are controlled by current, while the
FS is controlled by voltage. This is a technical difference
due to which they are used in different places.
Yes, I understand, but
what was there before these transistors? The source mentions vacuum tubes.
Yes, vacuum tubes were in those days, they were also
big, made of glass, so they were fragile but accurate,
and they used a lot of electricity, but they also got hot.
Transistors have eliminated all these problems,
small, strong, reliable, and
require very little power. This is why pocket radios became
small computers, and
all the technology we have today became possible. However, it is
also true that for some special tasks, such as
very high  Even today, vacuum tubes are used for power or high frequency,
so the gist of the whole thing is that a small
component, whose discovery was somewhat accidental, changed the entire
world of electronics and our lives,
really radically. The ability to manufacture this small switch and
amplifier so cheaply and in such
large numbers is the
basis of the modern era.
Research is underway on graphene carbon
nanotubes. If today's transistors have made such a
big difference, it is worth thinking about
what the new revolutionary component of the future will be like and
how it will change our world again
.